Well, how do you do that?
Well, you use the Sync Services API.
And you use it to do,
to write a little piece of
software we call a Sync Client.
Okay,
and this Sync Client cooperates very,
very closely with your application.
And it will move data from
your application data store
In an application-specific way,
over into the sync engine,
the sync engine will go and
put that data into the truth,
merging it as necessary with other
data that may already be there.
And then the sync engine will
Talk back to you and say, well,
here is what the truth has.
Here's some information
that you need to know,
some updates, some deletes,
some modifies, what have you.
And then you, with your sync client,
can react to that
information coming back.
from the Sync Engine and merge that
data into your application data store.
It's kind of the basic
workflow of what happens.
And after you do that,
your application data will
be in sync with the truth,
which is sort of really
where you want to be.
You want to be in sync.
Okay.
So now, well,
you can kind of think of some ways
you might want to do this yourself.
You've just got a data file.
Maybe you can just copy your
data file to another machine.
Maybe you can come up with some
simplified sync methodology by yourself.
But what you won't get
All of these terrific features
that you get for free by using
the Sync Services framework.
Here's some of the real power,
the real advantage of leveraging the
work that we've done to provide this API.
You get this terrific stuff for free.
Things like conflict management.
Not only the recognition of conflicts,
but you also get for free a
conflict resolution user interface.
You get .Mac syncing for free.
You can merge data with other
clients and other devices.
We'll be looking at
examples of that later.
You also get things like
a data change alert.
So if you're going to be modifying
a large number of records,
the user might be
interested in seeing that,
"Oh, gosh,
all of my contacts are going to change."
And yet again,
this data change alert is something
that you get for free by using Sync
Services to implement your sync client.
And really, I think all in all,
this moving data around,
getting this stuff for free,
got what I think is a
pretty good API to use.
I think that's pretty interesting
just in this scenario.
But wait, there's more.
Because here, you've got a scenario which
really sort of begins to look like
What a typical user's computing
experience looks like.
They may have a smartphone,
they've got a .Mac account,
they're using your application,
they're using some system applications,
and if you get all of those
things talking together,
exchanging data with the sync engine,
That's pretty cool.
And what's more, using .MAC,
you can now get that information
moving from desktop machine to laptop
machine to desktop machine elsewhere.
[Transcript missing]
That's pretty cool.
And what's more, using .MAC,
you can now get that information
moving from desktop machine to laptop
machine to desktop machine elsewhere.
It'll really benefit your users.
And I think it's a pretty cool
new technology on Tiger as well.
So now what I'd like to do
is give you a little example
of how this actually works.
We have the Demo 1 machine.
Now what I've done
is I've written a little
application over here that syncs.
And that's wrong.
Yeah, that's wrong.
Just a moment.
Okay, so what I've done over here
is I've written this little
application that knows how to sync.
And what does it sync with?
Well,
It syncs contacts with address book.
So you'll see right now what
I've got is I've got a number
of entries in the address book,
but my little demo
application is empty of data.
So I'm just going to come
along and hit the Sync button.
It syncs contacts with address book.
So you'll see right now what
I've got is I've got a number
of entries in the address book,
but my little demo
application is empty of data.
So I'm just going to come
along and hit the Sync button.
But now let's actually look at some
of the stuff that you get for free.
So let's do a real-world case.
So now a user comes over into
the People application and
makes a change to an entry.
John Doe is now John Doe
spelled like you would spell
it if you were kneading bread.
And then over in the address book,
before I sync, I'm actually going to make
an incompatible change.
So now over in the address book,
I've got John Doe.
Okay.
So now, what happens when I come
over here and sync?
I poke the sync button in
the People application,
and what's going to happen is I'm going
to get this conflict resolution dialog.
Again, I wrote no code in my little
demo application to make
this user interface come up.
The sync engine recognizes this change,
is a conflict, gives me the opportunity
to come over and say,
"Which one do you want?
Do you want Dough or Dough?"
I can come over,
select the one that I want,
the one in the People application.
No more DOLT for this
whole time here now.
And again, this gives me now an
opportunity to sync again.
And now you see that both applications
are in sync with the data that
I chose from the conflict resolver.
Okay.
Pretty cool.
Okay,
can we go back to the slides please?
Okay, so again,
what we're going to be doing for the
rest of the period is kind of looking at,
you know, yeah, the slides, yeah,
I didn't go through all my slides.
We're going to be talking
about making sync work.
about what actually went on
during that sync session.
When I was adding and
deleting and modifying,
what was actually happening?
Talk about making sync work.
Now, really, again,
to reiterate this point,
if you've got this scenario here,
you've got your application
sitting out there now.
It doesn't sync.
And now you want to make it possible
to interact with the sync engine
and sort of join that sync ecology.
Well, the thing that you need to do,
the one high-level thing you need to
do is you need to write a sync client.
Okay, talk's over, right?
That's all done.
No.
But now what you need to do, right,
is go and learn about our APIs,
read our documentation,
go out and experiment, you know,
go out and use the code,
make some attempts, find some bugs,
fix some bugs, and so forth.
But now what I'd really like to do
is like what I mentioned before,
is to give you some really
sort of high-level ideas,
things that you won't get by just going
and reading the API documentation or
looking at our tutorials and the other
information that we have on the Internet.
As fine as it is,
I would like to just give you a
few ideas that you can take away
with you as the high-level concepts
to think about when it comes time
to write your own sync client.
And I describe those as data
handling in your application.
You need to do some work.
to handle data,
to convert it to and from the format
that the sync engine wants to work with.
Next,
you need to think about registration.
You need to tell the sync engine
about your client and about the
kinds of data that you'll be syncing.
Next, there's the real work,
the real actual moving data
back and forth between your
code and the sync engine.
And so there's session control flow.
And finally,
there are a number of features,
there are a number of options that
the API makes available to you.
And you can take advantage of these
features depending on what kinds of
applications you have and what specific
kinds of syncing you want to do.
And so these four things really
sort of give us a roadmap,
the things that we're going to be talking
about for the rest of the session.
Okay?
So now, you know,
this is sort of one of these, you know,
hands-on setup sort of things.
And so if you go--if you've downloaded
the sample code for the session,
session 122,
add Sync to your application,
there's actually a little Xcode
project in there for the people
application that you see demonstrated
that I'm actually going to be using
for the rest of the--rest of the time.
And you can follow along.
There will be actually quite a few
code examples and you may wish to,
you know,
sort of get yourself oriented to those.
But
The code examples that
I'll be looking at,
that I'll be showing, look like this.
You'll see right across the top
is the file name that I'll be in.
And then the method beneath that,
and then of course the
code example beneath that.
So if you're interested
in following along,
that's sort of how to do it.
If not, if you'd just rather look at me,
well maybe not.
Maybe it'd be better if you look at code.
This is sort of how it works,
so you can kind of follow along.
So now we're back to this, the roadmap.
And first on there is data handling,
so let's get right into that.
There's two things to really think
about in terms of data handling.
The thing that you need to
do to kind of make your app,
your data sort of work with and interact
the sync engine is that first point,
converting to and from
the sync data format,
if you will.
And secondly,
optimizing to track data changes.
Let's look at the first one.
First, converting data.
So now you might imagine
from this People application
syncing with Address Book,
some names from Address Book going
into that People application.
Well, you might imagine that I have
something like this in my
little People application,
a person object.
It's got a couple of fields in it.
I might have something like that.
It turns out, actually,
the way that this is implemented
in the People application
is just a little record.
It's just a little dictionary that
has some named keys for the things
that are supported by the application.
So we've got a first name key
and a last name key and so forth.
And so your job is to go and
then convert that data from your
application-specific format to the format
that the sync engine will understand.
So you're going to have to
have this conversion step,
this method or function that you're going
to need to write to do this conversion.
You'll see in this example,
the conversion is very,
very straightforward.
It may be that way for your application.
You may actually need to do
some serious work in this step.
I've just written in the
People application just a very,
very simple method to just go and
basically convert a dictionary from one
form to a dictionary in another form.
The one that my application uses
on the one hand to the one that
the sync engine uses on the other.
It's very, very straightforward.
You see sort of the one highlighted
line there just sort of twiddling one
sort of first name form to another.
Again, in this case, very,
very straightforward.
Similarly,
when the sync engine communicates
back to you new information,
you need to then actually convert
it to the internal representation
that your application uses.
And so, again, there's just a method,
convert sync record to app record,
just going the other way.
Taking a dictionary,
converting it from one form back to
the form that you use in your code.
Again, very, very straightforward.
So next.
This next step, this optimization step,
is really just sort of a suggestion.
It's not really a requirement.
This data conversion that I was
mentioning before is really
something that you must do,
whereas this is something that it's
just strongly suggested that you do,
this tracking data changes.
Well, why is that?
Let me just, you know,
illustrate it with a small example.
So let's say you're in your
application and you want to sync.
So if you're not tracking data changes,
in other words,
if you don't know what has changed
in your data since you last synced,
Let's take this scenario.
You've synced,
you've made some changes over time,
and now you're ready to sync again.
If you don't know what's just happened
only in that period between two syncs,
The only thing that you can do is
actually then tell the sync engine
about all the data that you have,
all of your sync information.
It's your only option if you
don't know what has just changed
or knowing only about the change.
Sync session to sync session,
this is what you need to do.
Push all your data.
The alternative, of course,
is that if you do know, well,
then you can just tell
the sync engine about,
here's the only-- just what's
changed since I last spoke to you.
And as you can see here now,
maybe in the case of
the People application,
we only had a half a dozen records.
It doesn't really make
that much of a difference.
But if you're syncing a lot of data,
you can imagine that, well,
pushing 10,000 records is not going
to go as nice for your user as
just pushing maybe a small handful.
And so again,
tracking these data changes,
it's really strongly suggested.
Particularly if your data set gets large,
for some definition of large.
Sort of more suggested the
more you get into the thousands
and ten thousands of things.
Okay, now here's just a very,
very simple example of how the
People application tracks changes.
I just have a change object.
It's sort of--this is in some
ways you might say this is sort of
like the command design pattern.
I just have an object
representing a change,
an add, delete, or a modify.
Over here,
you see this table view set object
value just coming back right
from the Cocoa table view there.
This is the way that the
application deals with the changes.
And I just create one of
these little change objects,
tell my application to apply it,
and over here, you see the key point.
I actually use this to change
the internal data store,
but you'll see that highlighted
line over there is I'm actually
storing away that change object.
I'll go and empty that.
I'll go and empty that change
store when it comes time to sync.
See, just got a little fringe
benefit in the bottom there.
I can actually just implement
these for undo as well.
So if you're not using
something like Core Data,
which takes advantage--
or gives you that benefit,
I mean, this is a very,
very useful pattern just generally.
OK, but the important point is, again,
that I'm storing away this change.
And again, that's just really,
really very,
very strongly suggested if you're
going to be-- particularly if
you're going to be dealing and
syncing with large data sets.
And so again,
these are the two things that you
need to think about in terms of data
handling to start syncing in your app.
Okay, next.
We go from data handling,
and now the second thing is registration.
Well, what do you need to register?
There are two things
you need to register.
There's a sync schema and
a sync client description.
Now, I have to admit to you that I'm
relatively new in sync technology.
I've been working for a few
years on Safari and just recently
came over to work on sync.
And this is actually something that
was confusing to me in the beginning.
So hopefully,
if you're new to sync as well,
I can sort of maybe help you
and maybe save you some time on
trying to get an understanding
of what these two concepts are.
So first, the Sync Schema.
What it does is it describes
data to the sync engine.
In some ways it's analogous to,
it's really almost like a class,
a class description.
in say object-oriented programming.
It's not exactly the same but it's
sort of the same conceptual area.
And inside of these sync
schemas are entities,
elements of just a data model,
just a thing in the schema.
And there are also relationships which
are sort of referencing entities,
referencing other entities in the schema.
If you're familiar with databases,
you'll know that these two terms would
probably be pretty familiar to you,
entities and relationships.
And as a matter of fact,
sync schemas are really just that.
They're just entity relationship graphs.
And so you might be thinking, well,
you know, that People application,
it just sort of did some
first names and last names,
and that's all well and good for me,
for my, you know,
nice little toy example up here on stage.
But I want to point out to you
that these sync schemas can get
to be really pretty detailed,
really pretty complex in
the number of entities,
kinds of relationships in this.
Really,
the important point is that you can make
your own schemas to represent your data.
It's one of the things
that's open about the system.
It's one of the things that you as
developers can come in and add to to make
it work for your particular application.
And I just want to introduce one
more term having to do with schemas,
because I'm probably
going to say it later.
And I just want to make sure
that you know what I'm talking
about when I do say it.
And that's the notion of a data class.
And this is really,
this data class is really,
it's really just a logical
grouping of entities.
And, well, logical to whom?
To developers or users.
Well, it actually turns out
to be logical to users.
So you'll have a data class for contacts,
for instance.
And that will include things like...
Actual people, groups, things like that.
So the whole sort of contact schema
addresses and IM addresses and so forth.
Okay, so now again to stress this point,
if you have your own code, your own data,
just a very simple little example,
let's say you have a little
calendaring application or something
like that that keeps track of
names and the start dates of events.
Here I've got my vacation
which is actually true,
it starts on 6/13.
All I have to do is
get through this talk.
So now it starts on 6/13.
Well here's how you would represent
that schema to the sync engine.
Just a name as well,
it's going to be a string and
a start will be an NSDate.
Just very simple and straightforward.
Now, you may wish to go along and
sort of continue on that example,
go out and completely flesh that
out so that it represents the data
that you have in your application.
But what you can also do is you can
use an existing schema on the system.
And here are a couple of examples of
schemas that ship on Mac OS X Tiger.
You saw in the People application
that application taking advantage
of the contact schema and actually
syncing contacts with the address book.
There's actually even a pretty
important point that I want to stress
to you is that the People application
is not syncing with the address book.
It's syncing with contacts.
It's syncing with the contacts schema
that the sync engine knows about.
It just so happens that the
address book also syncs with the
contact schema and it's sort of,
you know,
you might even say the canonical sync
client for that particular data class.
But it's an important
conceptual difference is that
you're syncing with a schema,
you're not syncing with an app.
And so, if we just take a little look at
what is in that contact scheme,
all the things like you might expect,
contacts, groups, email addresses,
street addresses, and so forth.
But that point that I was
just making is that you can,
if you wish,
come along and just sync with a portion
of one of these existing schemas.
Your application may sync
with a little bit of contacts,
a little bit of calendaring information,
and then a little bit of your own
application-specific information
to make up sort of the recipe
of what your application syncs.
And this is possible.
You saw an example of it.
Okay?
So now, just kind of get down into
the details a little bit.
These schemas are defined in plist files.
You can make one in Xcode.
If you go to Xcode and choose
New Project and scroll down that list,
you'll actually see that there is
a project type for a sync schema.
strongly suggested that you use
the Xcode project to make it.
Okay, so now back to registration.
Now the second one on that item
is that client description.
Well, what does that do?
How is that different
from the sync schema?
Well, see,
this client description is actually
what your client uses to tell
the sync engine about itself.
So the sync schema talks about data.
The sync client really is talking
about an actual piece of code
that's going to be syncing.
Okay,
it's also described in a plist file.
But really, what's the difference
between these two things?
Again, that sync schema describes
data to the sync engine and
the sync client description,
another way of thinking maybe
is just a bridge between the
application and the sync engine.
And over that bridge is going to
be going things as you've described
them in that client description.
Another way of looking at it
is maybe this sync scheme is
what can possibly be synced.
Defines the full range of options,
whereas the sync client description says,
well, this is what I want to sync
just in this application.
You may have a consumer and a
pro version of your application.
Maybe that consumer version
only syncs a portion of what
your pro application does.
But if your user upgrades
to the pro version,
you may want them to then have access
to that full version of the schema.
So again, just a kind of a little
example of what the difference
between these two things are.
They're both described in plist files.
And here's just a sort of a little,
you know, sort of naming example.
You know, in the myschema.plist,
this is the sync schema.
You'll see that there are data
classes and entities and attributes
and relationships to things that are
required to make that sync schema work.
This is documented.
We're not going to go into it
in any great detail here now.
The client description,
on the other hand, is again,
this is the one that is actually
used by the People application.
You'll see there that it's
just got those four columns.
If you go and look at the contact schema,
well, it's very, very large.
This is only syncing
with those four things.
Okay, but again,
described in a P list file.
So now if you kind of want to actually
go and do the work of this registration,
which I had at the sort of
the kind of the splash graphic
at the start of this section,
it was very, very straightforward.
Registering a schema is just a couple
of lines of code as you can see,
and also registering a client
is similarly straightforward.
Of course, these are the essential steps,
sort of the bootstrap steps that
you really need to do in order
to get going in your sync client.
Okay, so that is registration.
Now next, we're going to talk about
Session Control Flow.
Pardon me a second.
Okay, so Session Control Flow.
So now you've kind of done the
work to get your data ready.
And you've registered,
you've kind of bootstrapped
the system there a little bit,
telling the sync engine about your
schema and your client description.
And now you actually want to go
do the work of syncing one time.
And here are the steps
that you need to do.
Starting a session,
negotiating the session,
pushing and pulling data,
and then finishing or canceling.
So let's look at these in turn.
Starting a session.
So this sync session is really,
and we're talking about
this session control flow,
it really is this one complete
transaction with the sync engine.
Going and telling the data about
your data as it stands right now,
getting back from the sync engine
all the new stuff that you need to
worry about coming from the truth.
And so there's actually two ways
that you can start a session,
one synchronously and one asynchronously.
Well, you say, well,
why would I need an asynchronous
call to start a session?
And that would be a good
question if you'd answer it,
so I'll answer it.
You'll actually notice if you
think back to the People example,
I actually had the Sync
button in the People example,
but there's no Sync button
in the Address Book.
So how does the Address
Book know that it should sync?
When I added that entry
to the People application,
how did the Address Book get it?
Well, there's actually a
notification that goes out.
When the People application
started to sync,
the sync engine said,
I'm syncing contacts.
Anybody else interested?
And the address book says, yes,
I'm interested.
And so that's why you have
this asynchronous call,
so that sort of invitation can
go out to other sync clients.
is the first person to ask
them if they want to join in.
You'll actually see there,
you're telling the entities
that you're going to be syncing,
that second argument there and
that begin session in background
at the bottom of the screen.
And you actually then pass an object
and a selector that will get called
back when the session is ready to begin.
And here is that method
that performs sync.
If you see there at the bottom,
it performs sync::.
Here is actually what's in perform sync.
You get You get a client in a session.
Beginning the session may have failed,
so you check for nil.
And if you actually have a good session,
you just go and do the other steps,
which are on the earlier
slide-- negotiating,
pushing, and then pulling.
Now is a good time to actually mention
that the sync session is actually,
it's really a state machine.
You need to do certain
things in certain order,
and this is documented very, very well.
on the website and in your
developer documentation.
But it's important to point out that you
can't pull then push in the same session.
That will not work.
And you have to negotiate to you,
you sort of have to get to an
agreement with the sync engine about
what's going to happen before you
can do either pushing or pulling.
OK, so let's talk about
negotiating a little bit.
Negotiating-- well, it's a little dose of
the real world here.
Negotiating section-- you
ask for what you want,
but you may not get what you ask for.
It's really up to the sync
engine to tell you what kind of
sync session is going to happen.
Again, you can ask and your wishes will
be respected as much as possible.
But again,
you may not get what you ask for.
Here are the four different
kinds of sync sessions that
we'll talk about here today.
So there's FastSync.
We described an example
of this to you before,
which is just telling the sync
engine about the changes that
you had since you last synced.
I'll just tell you about my changes.
That's it.
There's Slow Syncing.
I'm going to tell you
about all of my records.
Interestingly here,
there's sort of--this is the
way the deletes are done.
If you slow sync and you don't
tell the sync engine about a record
that you told it about before,
that's construed to be a delete.
Okay?
There's refresh syncing which is,
let's say,
a scenario where you read your data file
and you notice there's some corruption.
You don't have all the data
that you think you should have.
You can actually ask the sync engine,
"Hey, look,
I don't have all of my records.
Some of them seem to be damaged.
What I'm going to do is I'm going
to tell you about all the records
I do have and you give me all of the
records that the truth has." Really,
the important differences
here is if you don't tell the
sync engine about a record,
it will not construe it as
a delete in a refresh sync.
Okay.
And then there's Pull the Truth,
which is I just want to wipe out all
of the data that I have and I want to
replace it with what the truth has.
Okay.
So those are the four different
kinds of sessions you can ask for.
And here's a little bit
about how you ask for them.
So in this Negotiate Session method,
if you remember that Perform Sync method,
the first thing, Negotiate Session.
If we just step through those quickly,
FastSync, well, FastSync is the default.
So you don't have to do
anything to ask for that.
You don't have to make any API call.
That's the base assumption.
If you do want to slow sync,
you tell the sync engine, well,
I want to push all the records
for a particular entity name.
So for contacts,
I want to push everyone that I have.
For Refresh Sync, well,
I've reset all of my entity names.
Excuse me.
Yeah.
Reset all of my entity names.
This, both of these pass an array,
as you can see, of entity names.
Now, pulling the truth is actually
sort of fibbing a little.
That part of negotiation actually has
to happen before you start your session.
It's sort of kind of such a special
operation that the sync engine
needs to know about that actually
even before you start the session.
So you'll see that
background call on the very,
very bottom.
And previous to that,
there's the check to see whether
or not the sync mode that
you want is pull the truth.
Okay.
Okay, so that's about negotiation.
What kind of sync session
are you going to have?
So next,
once you have asked for your session,
you push.
And pushing is all about just telling the
sync engine about your application data.
Okay, so now when you get
into the doing pushing,
here's sort of like where
you find out what you got.
from the Sync Engine,
you asked for some things
in the negotiation phase.
Here's where you find your answer.
So in pushing data for session,
this line on the top is,
should I push all the records
for a particular entity name?
And if the answer to that question
comes back yes from the sync session,
you slow sync.
That's what this is.
That's what a yes answer
from this method tells you.
And you'll actually see there on
the second highlighted line that
what you're doing there is that I'm
actually records is the data structure
in the people application that contains
all of the records that I have.
So I'm telling,
I'm enumerating over those.
And you actually then
see a few lines down.
If you look for the convert line,
you'll actually see that that's the step
where I'm actually doing this conversion,
that data handling step of
converting from an application
record to a sync record.
And then going and
telling the sync session,
push those changes down
at the very bottom there.
Okay, so that's slow syncing.
Here, should I push the changes
for the entity name?
Well, that's pretty clear that
then this is a fast sync.
And you'll see that the object
that I'm enumerating over now is
that mchanges object that I had
before that I was storing away after
I got the information back from
the user after handling the change
in the table in the user interface.
This is where I just
iterate over all of those.
And then go Add, Modify,
Delete as the change object says.
He was just sort of
skipping down a little bit,
that same method.
If I'm modifying,
I'm then going and converting my
app record to a sync record again.
And I'm pushing the
changes from that record.
There's actually even a little
opportunity for an optimization here.
If my record was particularly large,
I don't even have to
push the whole record.
I can just push sort of the
elements of the record that change.
see that two commented outlines there.
Sort of the my sync change with change,
sort of waving my hands here to say,
you could write a method that
would then go and just extract out,
if you change just the first
name and not the last name,
the sync engine,
you can get down to that level
of granularity and tell the
sync engine just about that.
Okay, so that's pushing.
And now pulling.
So now pulling changes is
all about getting changes
back from the sync engine.
Okay, after you've pushed,
you pull changes.
So now there's a little
bit of negotiation that
needs to go along here now.
Again, parts of the answer coming back
about what kind of session you have.
So you ask this question, sync session,
should I pull changes for
the entity name at all?
Well, if not, then no,
no pulling is to be done and you
can just return at this point.
No polling.
However, if that comes back yes,
you can ask it, well,
should I replace all the records on the
client for this particular entity name?
If this comes back yes,
it means you're pulling the truth.
Now, an important point,
just something that just may not
be readily apparent to you now is
don't delete all your data now.
Now would be a bad time to
throw away all your data.
The reason for that is the line
right beneath that is that,
okay, I'm actually ready to pull.
And you'll see that there's
a before date on that line.
Prepare to pull changes for
entity name before date.
You may never return.
Or it may return no.
Now think about that.
If you said, "Okay,
should I replace all of my records?" Yes,
great.
Throw all my data away.
And then this method returns no.
Well, you just left the user
with a nice empty window.
threw away all your local data and didn't
get any new data from the sync engine.
Well, what do you do then?
So there's actually--
you need to save that.
Save sort of the state that you
want to replace all your records
and wait until the sync engine says,
OK, yeah, you're ready to pull now.
And then you can go and delete your data.
So it's kind of a, again,
a sort of an interesting point which
may not be readily apparent from
just the API description itself.
about pulling.
Okay.
So when you pull data from a session,
it's just kind of in some ways very,
very similar to pushing data.
You get back an object,
you enumerate over the changes, adds,
modifies, and deletes.
You update your data store appropriately
for all those using those conversion,
converting the sync back record
back to the app record things
I've talked about before.
That's where you would do
that right in this step,
pulling data.
And again,
you get that back from the sync
engine in the form of adds,
modifies, and deletes.
So that's pulling.
So after you've done that,
now you're ready to finish or cancel.
So now cancel is about, well,
the user hit the cancel button at
any point during this operation.
Or something went wrong.
Maybe you've realized that
you've run out of disk space.
I mean, maybe not so common,
but it's the kind of thing that
could happen that might make you say,
well, no, no, I as the program need to
cancel this sync session.
Okay?
So I've actually got this method
in the People application.
Sync failed.
As you can see, I did a very,
very complete job of error handling.
And it's logged there.
But it's localized.
I went and got the localized string.
just then did a little cleanup.
The important line there is really the
cancel syncing line for sync session.
Sync session, cancel syncing.
Okay, now finishes is really this,
should not go over that too quickly,
finishing is a two-part process.
And let's look at what
those two parts are.
So now, this is even later down
in the poll session part.
It's the way that I wrote it.
Okay.
This first part
is all about accepting
changes for a record.
So now, when the sync engine tells
you about a new record,
when you pull,
it gives you this identifier for it.
And so you have to go back
and tell the sync engine,
"Yeah, I accept that change.
I've got it."
And then later you'll see that then,
well, Sync Session client
commit accepted changes.
So now why might these two
steps be useful to you?
Let's think about this for a second.
So now let's say you know, I mean,
we try to do as good a job as we can
to make that sync operation go quickly.
But you'll notice if you think
back to the sync example that
when you push the sync button,
well, we gave you a little
indeterminate spinner there.
And it came back after
a couple of seconds.
Well, let's say that I actually
was pushing a lot of data.
And it took many seconds.
You may not want to shut down your
user interface while that's going on.
You may want to keep that lively so
that the user can continue to use
your application while you're syncing.
So let's say you change a record
and you tell the sync engine
about it and then the user comes
in and modifies that record.
Now you've got a conflict
just waiting to happen.
This would be an opportunity
if you can detect that.
If you say, "Okay, well,
I've told the sync engine about this
change." And now you come to this
point in the program and you say,
"Oh, well, now I need to tell the sync
engine whether I'm accepting a
change for that record." If you
can detect that difference that's
happened since you started,
you can tell the sync engine, "No,
I'm not going to accept this change.
I'm going to actually
keep what the user had,
what the user put in most recently,
since I started syncing."
If you don't tell the sync engine
that you've accepted that change,
the next time you sync,
you're going to get the nice
conflict dialog for free.
It'll give you that change again,
and the sync engine will
detect the conflict.
and give you the
opportunity to resolve it.
So all you have to do here is
just a little bit of work to say,
"Okay, well, I noticed that this
record has been changed,
so just--I'm not going to accept it.
Not now."
Okay?
And so every record that you don't accept
will be given to you again the next time.
Okay, so you go through that step,
accepting and then commit
your accepted changes.
And then the last line, finish syncing.
All done.
Session done.
Okay?
So that takes us through
the whole operation:
starting, negotiating, pushing, pulling,
finishing, and canceling.
Okay, so now I'd like to do a
little bit of a demo to,
no, I don't want to do that yet.
Let's do the demo for
Session Control Flow.
Okay, we're back in the
People application again,
and just to make sure that
we are actually in sync,
so I pressed the Sync button.
You'll notice on the bottom there,
I've got a little pop-up button
that right now says Fast Sync.
So I'm just telling the sync
engine about my changes.
You'll see if I pop that up,
I've got some of the other
sync modes there that we've
talked about-- Fast Sync,
Slow Sync, Refresh Sync,
and Pull the Truth.
So let's actually give this a workout.
I'm going to go and delete an entry.
from the People application and
then come down here in Refresh Sync.
This again sort of models, it's like,
well, maybe I lost that record.
The data file got corrupted
right at that point.
So if I refresh sync, you'll notice that,
well, I'll get that record back.
The sync engine just says, well,
you didn't tell me about this one.
Here it is again.
Okay, you can also then,
let's just say I delete all my records,
I can come down here and pull the truth.
And similarly, I'll get them all back.
Now, you may be wondering, as I did,
what the difference is between
refresh and pull the truth.
Now,
the differences in some ways are subtle,
and I don't know if I really want to
get into it all that deeply right now.
If you really have interest in that,
I'll give you just a little.
We do have a lab session tomorrow where
we can get into that in real detail.
But let me just give you a
little bit of a taste of what you
might want to do with refresh,
sync, and pull the truth.
This example was given to me
by a friend just recently.
So let's say you've got your
phone and you notice that,
oh, man, my phone, it's all garbled now.
My information isn't there.
So I've lost all my records.
Man, I'm going to have to come back and
pull the truth next time I sync,
so make sure I've got all
my entries back on my phone.
But before you get back home,
let's say this happened to me.
Angelina Jolie stops me on the way
out of the conference center today,
and she says, "Ken,
I was in your sync session.
I loved it so much.
We need to have coffee sometime.
Just want to know more about syncing."
So I get her phone number
down in my phone now.
So now I've got one entry in my phone.
It's a pretty darn important one.
I don't want to lose that one now.
I want to give her a call back later.
Okay?
So now, pulling the truth would be bad
because pulling the truth says,
"Well, I just want to throw out all my
records and replace them with what
the truth has." That would be bad.
I would lose Angelina's phone number,
and she'd just have to spend
more time with Brad Pitt,
which would really be compared to me.
I don't know.
So now let's actually see if I can kind
of work up a little example of that.
So now let's say I delete a
bunch of records from here.
And actually,
let's say you can delete all the records.
And I add back Angelina.
Jolie, if I can only type.
OK.
And I pull the truth.
Well, you'll see what will happen
is Angelina gets clobbered.
That's it.
It's gone.
I just replaced my application
store with what was in the truth.
If I do this again,
and I add back Angelina,
And instead of pulling the truth,
I just refresh sync.
You'll see that Angelina is still there,
along with all of the records
that got deleted before.
It's just, again,
just a little sort of example
of what the difference is
between these two sync modes.
Okay?
And then naturally,
Fast Sync is just all about, again,
just telling the sync engine
about changes that you had.
You can see over here,
I've got seven records.
I delete one and Fast Sync and what I've
got back over here is now six records.
Just all about changes.
Pushing that delete.
Okay?
OK?
OK, let's go back to the slides.
Okay,
so that's all about Session Control Flow,
showing you the different kinds
of sync modes that are available.
Okay,
so now the last sort of high-level idea,
is Featured Decisions.
Now there are many,
and I can't cover them all now,
but I've picked out
A few interesting ones.
Things like record filtering,
record formatting,
responding to sync alerts.
These are things you may wish to do.
That's why the question marks are there.
Things you may wish to do when
you are writing your sync client.
So let's take a closer look
at what some of these are.
Record filtering.
Well, record filtering is all
about ignoring records.
There may be in your application
some records you're not
interested in dealing with.
Now, I actually made a filter
for the People application.
And the way you do this is just with
a little hunk of code that conforms
to the iSync filtering protocol.
You'll see that at the top.
In this example,
here's a last name filter.
And what this actually does is this
one method here at the bottom should
apply record with record identifier.
What it does is it says, "Well,
in my client, my People application,
I only want to deal with
records that have a last name.
It doesn't have a last name.
I just don't want to know about it.
I'm not interested."
We'll see an example of
where you can use this later.
You may wish in your application to say,
"I'm not interested in
records that are of a certain,
you know,
too big or were created before a certain
time." You can put whatever sort of check
that you want in there for that record.
Okay.
Okay, so record filtering,
they're set up before starting a session.
And here's just how you do it.
Okay.
Before you start your session,
you just go and set your filters.
Just very, very simple.
One line of code, create that object,
set the filter.
You'll see as an alternative,
you can just clear any filters
you may have previously set by
just passing an empty array.
Very, very straightforward.
Okay.
Before you start your session,
you just go and set your filters.
Just very, very simple.
The case where your application
stores data in a different
format than the truth stores it.
Okay, the very,
very simple example of that is,
let's say you have a device that can only
store maybe 24 characters for an entry,
for a name.
Yet you may have some friends with very,
very long names.
The truth will continue to store those,
but you want to store that
clipped version on your device.
Record formatting lets you keep
those in sync even though they
don't look the same anymore.
The sync engine can
detect that this thing,
even though they look different,
they are actually the same.
Okay.
You'll notice this, if we go back to that
Pull Data for Session slide,
when you're going through and doing
that sort of two-part finish-up process,
Okay.
You'll notice this, if we go back to that
Pull Data for Session slide,
when you're going through and doing
that sort of two-part finish-up process,
So that's where you do that,
right when you're accepting records.
Accept it,
but here is my little alteration to it.
Keep track of that, please.
Okay?
Here is just a, you know,
a little bit of code that
would format first names to be,
you know,
no longer than 16 characters in length.
Really pretty simple, straightforward.
So when I'm converting a sync
record back to the app griper,
jumping back to that data handling step,
here's a place where you
can put in your formatting,
record formatting.
So record formatting sync alerts.
Now I've already mentioned sync
alerts a little bit earlier.
Sync is starting elsewhere.
Do you care to join?
This is again how the address book knew
to sync with the People application
even though it doesn't have a button.
There's actually a couple
of ways to do this,
and again,
I can't get into all of the different
possibilities and permutations.
I will say that there's one
way we'll talk about right now,
which is setting a Sync Alert Handler.
It's just an object and a selector
that you set on the client to say,
yeah, when syncs start happening,
please call me.
Tell me about the entity
names that are going to sync.
And you'll see there at the bottom,
the little implementation
of the Sync Handler is the
exact same thing that happens.
Um, when the user hits the Sync
button in the People application.
So you'll still get the same dimming,
it's just sort of just the
People application just
works that way when you sync.
Again, this is sort of glossing
over a lot of details.
There are more options here.
Come to the lab period tomorrow if
you have particular interest in this.
Okay,
so that's responding to sync alerts.
Let's take a little look at doing that,
at what some of these features,
how they actually work.
Okay, so now I'm actually going
to come over here and create
a company in Address Book,
Apple Computer.
And I'm going to sync.
So you'll see now that I'll get a new
entry over here with Apple Computer.
Well, great, but Apple Computer does
not have a last name.
And so if I just come over here
and go to the Options menu and say,
well, yeah, now I use record filtering.
So I'm not interested in records
that don't have a last name.
Apple computer doesn't have a last name.
It doesn't-- you'll also notice that
the address book doesn't delete that.
It's just that the
People application is just saying,
look, I'm not interested in that.
I'll give you one more quick example,
since I'm running a little short of time,
which is record formatting.
If I just delete all of my records
and come back and pull the truth,
you'll notice that my name, for instance,
is now clipped.
In this case,
it was clipped to six characters
to just-- my name is only eight,
so 16 wouldn't really
be a very good demo.
So you'll see again that that's
just the way that you can--
Filter Records.
And coming over and fast syncing.
Everything will just be good.
You're in sync.
The sync engine knows that these
different representations of
the data are actually the same.
Okay, so that's just a little
look at some features.
Okay, if I can go back to the slides now.
Okay, so a little bit about features.
And so there,
Done talking about features.
Again,
these are the four things that I would
like you to take away with you today.
If you're going to be
making your sync client,
here are the four things you
need to know about data handling,
registration, session control flow,
and feature decisions.
This would be just, I think,
a good way to sort of now start looking
at the API documentation we have,
the tutorials we have, very,
very nice examples that let you
sort of get into this technology.
Okay?
And again, pay heed to these four things
and I think that'll be a good
way for you to get started.
So that's it.
But there's one more thing,
and that's Synchro Spectre.
Now SyncRespector is a developer
tool that I think you'll find very,
very, very useful.
If you haven't downloaded
the sample code yet,
I strongly suggest that you
download it if you're going to
be doing syncing so that you can
get your hands on SyncRespector.
Now SyncRespector is a tool that we're
making sort of available to you now in
a kind of a WWDC developer release form.
We would love to get some feedback
from you on whether you like the tool,
what other features you'd
like to see in the tool,
and so forth.
I think it's really essential if
you're going to be doing syncing.
I'd like to show it to
you just very quickly.
So over in your package,
just right in there with the people
example is the Sync Respector app.
And if you start it up,
it gives you a wealth of terrific
information about the clients
that you have registered.
Here you see we've got
the address book client.
We've got the people client registered.
It tells you information
about its registration,
what it's registered for,
when it last synced.
It tells you a little bit about what
kind of sync mode it's eligible for.
tells you about the contents
of the Truth database.
I mentioned that to you earlier today.
You'll see that there's actually,
there's my entry in the Truth.
tells you what kind of entity it is,
what its record identifier is.
This terrific debugging tool over here,
call history.
These are all of the sync sessions that
have happened with detailed information
about what happened in the sync session.
All of the sync API methods that got
called with arguments and results.
So you can go and-- oh,
my sync didn't work.
What happened?
If you've got the Sync Respecter
preference on to enable call history,
you will generate
This call history,
like you're looking at now,
it's really just an invaluable tool
if you're trying to sync and things
don't go perfectly the first time.
Okay, so again,
the Synchro Spectre tool is
available right in your package
with the People application.
And if you're really interested in
learning more about Synchro Spectre,
again, come to the lab tomorrow.
Okay, so back to the slides.
Great, the developer tool.
So that is really and truly it.
So thank you.
Just a little sort of
late additions there,
some more information.
Naturally,
you can go to the developer.apple.com
website for sample code.
We've got another really,
really nice example that
someone on the team made,
a more sort of complex,
in-depth example that uses
stickies that you really,
really may be interested in looking at.
Again, come to the lab tomorrow if
you're interested in that.
I should say you could just download it
from the sample code and come to the lab
if you're interested in talking about it.
Just a little sort of
late additions there,
some more information.
Naturally, you can go to the
developer.apple.com website